README.md, before:

# Docker

Build the image:
```sh
docker build -t fieldscript-api .
```

Run (default 8000):
```sh
docker run --rm -p 8000:8000 fieldscript-api
```

Run with PORT override (example 8080):
```sh
docker run --rm -e PORT=8080 -p 8080:8080 fieldscript-api
```

Compose:
```sh
docker compose up --build
```

Health check:
```sh
curl http://localhost:8000/health
```

Swagger UI:
http://localhost:8000/docs
# Run the API locally

1. Copy .env.example to .env and adjust as needed.
2. Install dependencies:
	```powershell
	pip install -r requirements.txt
	pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
	```
3. Start the API:
	```powershell
	scripts\run.ps1
	```
	(Set $env:PORT to override port if needed)

Swagger UI: [http://localhost:8000/docs](http://localhost:8000/docs)
Health check: [http://localhost:8000/health](http://localhost:8000/health)


# Fieldscript API

Production-grade FastAPI OCR service with strict payload enforcement, request ID tracing, and contract-tested error handling.

---

## Overview

Fieldscript API is a backend service designed to process base64-encoded document images for OCR extraction while enforcing strict API contracts.

This project emphasizes:

- Deterministic error semantics  
- Route-level payload enforcement  
- Request ID propagation for traceability  
- Boundary-tested contract behavior  
- Middleware-aware design  

The goal of this project is to demonstrate production-oriented backend engineering practices rather than prototype-level experimentation.

---

## Endpoint

### `POST /v1/projects/{project_id}/ocr`

Processes one or more base64-encoded images for OCR.

### Required Headers

```
x-project-id: {project_id}
Content-Type: application/json
```

The `x-project-id` header must match the `{project_id}` path parameter.

---

## Payload Limits (Decoded Bytes)

Limits are enforced using decoded image size — not base64 string length.

- **10MB per image**
- **20MB total per request**

If limits are exceeded, the API returns a standardized `413` response:

```json
{
	"error_code": "PAYLOAD_TOO_LARGE",
	"message": "Total image payload exceeds allowed size",
	"request_id": "..."
}
```

The response will always include:

`x-request-id: <same value as request_id>`

---

## Design Decisions

### Route-Level Payload Enforcement

Payload limits are enforced directly inside the OCR route rather than relying solely on FastAPI exception handlers.

This guarantees deterministic 413 behavior even when custom middleware stacks may interfere with exception propagation.

### Decoded Byte Size Estimation

Base64 payloads are evaluated using a decoded-size estimation formula:

```
decoded_size = (len(base64_string) * 3) // 4 - padding
```

This prevents unnecessary memory allocation by avoiding full image decoding during validation.

### Request ID Propagation

Each request receives a request_id via middleware.

All responses include:

- request_id in the JSON body
- x-request-id response header

This ensures traceable API behavior across middleware, logging, and error boundaries.

---

## Running Locally

**Create Virtual Environment**
```powershell
python -m venv .venv
.\.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
```

**Install Dependencies**
```powershell
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

**Run the Server**
```powershell
uvicorn app.main:app --reload
```

**Running Tests**
```powershell
python -m pytest -vv
```

Contract tests validate:

- Per-image payload limits
- Total payload limits
- Exact boundary conditions
- Project scope enforcement
- Request ID propagation

---

## Deployment Notes

On certain hosting platforms (e.g., reverse proxies or serverless platforms), large payloads may be rejected before reaching the FastAPI application layer. In those cases, platform-level 413 responses will not use this API’s standardized schema.

Contract tests apply to application-layer behavior using FastAPI's TestClient.

---

## Project Structure

```
app/
	main.py
	services/
	engines/
	schemas/
	utils/
	middleware/
	test_413.py
```

The project separates:

- API surface layer
- Business/service layer
- Engine layer
- Utilities
- Middleware
- Contract tests
# FastAPI backend run instructions

## Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

## Run the server
uvicorn app.main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000

## Endpoints:
- GET /health
- GET /version
- POST /v1/projects/{project_id}/ocr
- POST /v1/projects/{project_id}/export

CORS is enabled for http://localhost:3000
JSON logging is configured.
Request ID middleware is active.
Standard error schema is used.

# Development

Install dev requirements:
```powershell
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
```

Run tests:
```powershell
scripts\test.ps1
```

Run lint/format checks:
```powershell
scripts\lint.ps1
```

All code is formatted with black (line length 100) and checked with ruff.

Commit message:

chore(prod): deterministic migrations + health/readiness endpoints
- Tests use temp SQLite DB and run alembic upgrade head
- Added scripts/migrate.py
- Docker runs migrations on startup
- Added /health (liveness) endpoint
- Added /ready (DB readiness) endpoint
- No changes to auth, logging, or error schema
- All tests passing

README.md, after:

# Docker

Build the image:
```sh
docker build -t fieldscript-api .
```

Run (default 8000):
```sh
docker run --rm -p 8000:8000 fieldscript-api
```

Run with PORT override (example 8080):
```sh
docker run --rm -e PORT=8080 -p 8080:8080 fieldscript-api
```

Compose:
```sh
docker compose up --build
```

Health check:
```sh
curl http://localhost:8000/health
```

Swagger UI:
http://localhost:8000/docs
# Run the API locally

1. Copy .env.example to .env and adjust as needed.
2. Install dependencies:
	```powershell
	pip install -r requirements.txt
	pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
	```
3. Start the API:
	```powershell
	scripts\run.ps1
	```
	(Set $env:PORT to override port if needed)

Swagger UI: [http://localhost:8000/docs](http://localhost:8000/docs)
Health check: [http://localhost:8000/health](http://localhost:8000/health)


# Fieldscript API

Production-grade FastAPI OCR service with strict payload enforcement, request ID tracing, and contract-tested error handling.

---

## Overview

Fieldscript API is a backend service designed to process base64-encoded document images for OCR extraction while enforcing strict API contracts.

This project emphasizes:

- Deterministic error semantics  
- Route-level payload enforcement  
- Request ID propagation for traceability  
- Boundary-tested contract behavior  
- Middleware-aware design  

The goal of this project is to demonstrate production-oriented backend engineering practices rather than prototype-level experimentation.

---

## Endpoint

### `POST /v1/projects/{project_id}/ocr`

Processes one or more base64-encoded images for OCR.

### Required Headers

```
x-project-id: {project_id}
Content-Type: application/json
```

The `x-project-id` header must match the `{project_id}` path parameter.

---

## Payload Limits (Decoded Bytes)

Limits are enforced using decoded image size — not base64 string length.

- **10MB per image**
- **20MB total per request**

If limits are exceeded, the API returns a standardized `413` response:

```json
{
	"error_code": "PAYLOAD_TOO_LARGE",
	"message": "Total image payload exceeds allowed size",
	"request_id": "..."
}
```

The response will always include:

`x-request-id: <same value as request_id>`

---

## Design Decisions

### Route-Level Payload Enforcement

Payload limits are enforced directly inside the OCR route rather than relying solely on FastAPI exception handlers.

This guarantees deterministic 413 behavior even when custom middleware stacks may interfere with exception propagation.

### Decoded Byte Size Estimation

Base64 payloads are evaluated using a decoded-size estimation formula:

```
decoded_size = (len(base64_string) * 3) // 4 - padding
```

This prevents unnecessary memory allocation by avoiding full image decoding during validation.

### Request ID Propagation

Each request receives a request_id via middleware.

All responses include:

- request_id in the JSON body
- x-request-id response header

This ensures traceable API behavior across middleware, logging, and error boundaries.

---

## Running Locally

**Create Virtual Environment**
```powershell
python -m venv .venv
.\.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
```

**Install Dependencies**
```powershell
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

**Run the Server**
```powershell
uvicorn app.main:app --reload
```

**Running Tests**
```powershell
python -m pytest -vv
```

Contract tests validate:

- Per-image payload limits
- Total payload limits
- Exact boundary conditions
- Project scope enforcement
- Request ID propagation

---

## Deployment Notes

On certain hosting platforms (e.g., reverse proxies or serverless platforms), large payloads may be rejected before reaching the FastAPI application layer. In those cases, platform-level 413 responses will not use this API’s standardized schema.

Contract tests apply to application-layer behavior using FastAPI's TestClient.

---

## Project Structure

```
app/
	main.py
	services/
	engines/
	schemas/
	utils/
	middleware/
	test_413.py
```

The project separates:

- API surface layer
- Business/service layer
- Engine layer
- Utilities
- Middleware
- Contract tests

---

## Database & Migrations

This project uses Alembic for database migrations. All tables (including `project_api_keys`) are created via migrations.

- **Local development:**
  - The default database is SQLite (see `DATABASE_URL` in `.env.example`).
  - To apply migrations:
    ```sh
    python scripts/migrate.py
    ```
  - This will create/update the schema in the database specified by `DATABASE_URL`.

- **Docker/Railway:**
  - The Docker image runs migrations automatically on container startup (see `Dockerfile`).
  - For Railway or other platforms, ensure migrations are run before starting the server (the Docker CMD does this by default).

## Running Tests (DB setup)

- Tests use a fresh temporary SQLite database for each test session.
- Migrations are applied automatically before tests run (see `tests/conftest.py`).
- No manual DB setup is required for tests or CI.
